No! Make them stop!
Anything?
Nothing of relevance.
are still fluctuating.
His neural pathways
PARIS:
Doc...
Can't you do something?
he's suffering.
Look how much
we could lose any chance
If I sedate him,
of contacting the aliens.
Get them out!
Commander, can you hear me?
Focus on the sound
of my voice.
I can't understand them,
but they won't
stop talking!
What are they saying?
I don't know!
Make them stop! Please!
Janeway to Sick Bay.
Any progress, Doctor?
going well.
It's not
is still delusional.
Our "Ambassador"
We're running out of time.
JANEWAY:
is buckling the hull.
The graviton shear
out of chaotic space soon,
If we don't find a way
we're going to die here.
[THEME MUSIC PLAYS]
Chief Medical Officer's Log,
supplemental.
Despite my efforts,
continues to deteriorate.
Chakotay's condition
CHAKOTAY:
Doctor!
Yes, Commander?
I want to sleep.
I'm tired.
If you lose consciousness,
it could sever your link
with the aliens.
Aliens?
The ones who live
in this place.
We're trapped here.
They may know a way out.
you speak with them.
It's urgent that
But I don't understand
what they're saying.
I can try to help
you understand.
like my grandfather,
I'm going to end up
a crazy old man.
No. You're not crazy.
I believe the aliens
your neural pathways,
are reconfiguring
communicate with you.
so they can
Do you remember the day
you were injured
on the holodeck?
In the boxing
simulation?
Yes. You were knocked
down, remember?
I was injured.
I came to see you.
We had an argument.
That's right.
Try to remember more
about the holodeck.
I was sparring with
a Terrellian...
and Boothby was there.
He used to train me
when I was a cadet.
Keep going.
What round was it?
Three. Round Three.
The fight was going badly.
I was avoiding my opponent.
Stay away from the ropes, son.
That's it,
that's it.
End Round Three.
COMPUTER:
That wasn't so bad.
It was terrible.
Am I missing something?
He barely landed
a glove on me.
Give him time.
Mm-hmm.
You're not reading him.
slow and stupid.
You think he's
I know better.
In fact, I know his kind
in my bones. Literally.
I can count the fractures,
if you'd like.
He's not landing any punches.
That's the problem.
You're not letting him.
Have I got this sport all wrong?
about taking the shots
Boxing is more
than dishing them out.
You shouldn't be dancing
away from this fella.
himself out a little.
Let him punch
It all comes down
to the heart.
Do you have the
heart for this?
it's not against him.
That's the contest,
It's against your own natural
human desire not to get hurt.
That's the real fight.
Begin Round Four.
COMPUTER:
Go.
Go, go, go.
Stay with him.
come on. Break it up.
Too close. Come on,
Keep him busy.
That a boy.
[SLOWLY]:
Cover up!
[GRUNTING]
How many?
[EXHALES]
Three.
Good guess.
use a needle and thread,
I've got a good mind to
add a little authenticity
to your fun.
Be my guest.
You'd like that, a manly
scar above your eye.
the Maquis Mauler."
"Chakotay,
Pointless violence.
even be in our database.
That program shouldn't
a good fight, Doctor.
There's nothing like
went 23 rounds with Gul Tulet.
I was there when Price Jones
in the Neutral Zone."
"The Knockout
Best match I ever saw.
Really?
Most blood spilled?
Or did Price Jones
drive Gul Tulet's nasal
bone up into his brain?
[CHUCKLING]
the wrong idea.
You've got
simple enough.
The idea is
Do enough damage
to your opponent
to render him unconscious.
How's the headache?
It hurts.
Edema beneath the anterior fossa
of the cranium...
hairline fracture
of the septum...
I'll bet you did.
I saw something strange.
No, before I got hit.
What do you mean?
I looked over at Boothby...
He yelled at me...
I turned back...
Then the ring got distorted.
An hallucination.
You probably had some
pressure building up
along the optic nerves
from a previous blow.
from him the whole fight.
No. I was keeping away
He never touched me.
Hmm. A number
of the ganglia
in your visual cortex
are hyperactive.
Your opponent wasn't
firing on you
with an energy
weapon, was he?
Just his gloves.
Chakotay to the Bridge.
JANEWAY:
On my way.
I want you back in here
for some tests...
unless you want to be seeing
things on a regular basis.
[FRUSTRATED SIGH]
It's changed course again,
CHAKOTAY:
20,000 kilometers
off starboard.
Ion storm?
Not exactly.
It's two light-years across,
emits enough energy
for a dozen stars.
phenomenon in our database,
It doesn't match any
and it won't sit still.
Okay. Eleven thousand
kilometers
off the port bow.
We are too close.
I'm backing us off.
The phenomenon has been shifting
positions every few minutes.
could move that fast.
Nothing so massive
Maximum shields.
Full reverse.
Full stop.
Anybody want to tell me
where we are?
inside the disturbance.
We appear to be
a lot of raw data,
I'm picking up
graviton waves.
subspace flux,
Sensors must
be confused.
around so much, I can't make
The readings are shifting
heads or tails of
what's out there.
Captain, this is Seven of Nine.
SEVEN OF NINE:
to Astrometrics at once.
Please report
The Borg have been aware of this
phenomenon for many years.
SEVEN OF NINE:
where the laws of physics
It's a zone
flux, "chaotic space."
are in a state of
Why didn't sensors
warn us in time?
randomly and unexpectedly.
Chaotic space appears
The Borg have
observed it
the galaxy.
throughout
Federation starship
Then why hasn't a
TUVOK:
anything like this?
encountered
some have.
No doubt
the Starfleet vessels
Think of all
mysterious circumstances.
that disappeared under
are more advanced,
Borg vessels
but only one cube
has survived
with chaotic space.
an encounter
Those aren't
good odds.
constants are shifting,
If the physical
can't function.
our sensors
The problem is here.
gravitational coefficient
Changes in the
will cause sudden shear
forces against our hull.
Shields will protect us,
but only for a time.
How much time?
Unknown.
We've got to recalibrate
the sensors,
redesign them if necessary.
we're flying blind.
Otherwise,
Let's get to work.
[KEYBOARD BEEPING]
[BELL RINGS]
[COMPUTER QUIETLY]:
Begin Round One.
Computer, did you say something?
[COMPUTER NORMAL VOLUME]:
Negative.
[DISTANT CHEERS]
[CHEERING VOLUME INCREASES]
Pick 'em up, son.
BOOTHBY:
you've been waiting for.
It's the fight
[DISTANT BELL DINGS]
Begin Round One.
COMPUTER:
Bridge to Commander Chakotay.
TUVOK:
Go ahead, Tuvok.
Please report to the Bridge.
On my way.
says we're moving at Warp 6.
Graviton wave displacement
Subspace sensors show
we're standing
still.
from where we entered.
We can't be that far
just set a course,
Maybe we should
go to impulse and
see what happens.
What would most
likely happen
asteroid field or a star.
is a collision with an
That'd be better than just
sitting here waiting--
PARIS:
Report.
Torsional shear
KIM:
by 200 percent.
has increased
Shields?
TUVOK: Holding.
Like I was saying,
sitting here waiting
better than just
for our hull
to breach.
Perhaps we
could drop
TUVOK:
to help us navigate.
a series of beacons
Now that's an idea.
PARIS:
[FAINT BELL DINGS]
Did you hear something?
I heard nothing unusual.
I didn't hear
anything.
PARIS:
Begin Round One.
COMPUTER:
and we'll take it slow.
I'll plot a course
PARIS:
What do you think,
Chakotay?
The challenger...Chakotay!
ANNOUNCER:
Don't you hear that?
Hear what?
[CROWD CHEERING FAINTLY]
Look.
Commander?
KIM:
Are you all right?
Put on the gloves, son.
BOOTHBY:
I'm not ready.
Commander.
wearing the red trunks...
In this corner,
ANNOUNCER:
Begin Round One.
COMPUTER:
We've got a medical emergency.
Bridge to Sick Bay.
[GRUNTING]
[DOCTOR SINGS NOTE]
[SINGS HIGHER NOTE]
Let's go to 880 hertz.
Mm-hmm.
[SINGS HIGHER NOTE]
Music lessons?
Pretty soon we'll
be singing duets.
CHAKOTAY:
I'm checking to see if
there's been any damage
DOCTOR:
to the auditory nerves,
nothing so far.
His vision checks out as well.
I'm afraid the source of the
trouble...
may be a little...deeper.
The family curse.
CHAKOTAY:
What do you mean?
JANEWAY:
the genetic marker
Chakotay has
for a cognitive disorder,
Sensory Tremens.
The primary symptoms are visual
and auditory hallucinations.
suppressed the gene
My family doctor
CHAKOTAY:
before I was even born,
so I never had to go through
what the others did,
like my grandfather.
gene's been switched on.
For some reason, the
DOCTOR:
I'm not saying for certain
that's why Chakotay thought
he was getting ready
for a prizefight,
but it's a good bet,
the holodeck boxing
simulation was fresh
in his memory.
neurons did the rest.
A few misfiring
This chaotic space
we've entered,
could it be stimulating
the gene?
Possibly. The only way
to make certain
would be to get the
ship out of here.
the Commander will have
In the meantime,
to stay in Sick Bay.
you've got a mean left jab.
Tuvok tells me
[CHUCKLING]
Never spar with a Vulcan.
How are you doing?
[SIGHS]
I'm all right.
When I was a boy...
started seeing things
my grandfather
nobody else could see...
nobody else could hear.
hearing what
He refused treatment.
that's all he would have needed.
A couple of hyposprays a day,
But he was stubborn.
his spirit was in pain...
He said
but that the wound...
must be honored.
[CHUCKLES]
Crazy old man.
Ready, Captain.
Janeway to Seven.
Bring the grid back online.
SEVEN OF NINE:
Stand by.
We've got sensors.
KIM:
to 100,000 kilometers...
I'm scanning
700,000.
one million kilometers.
Sensors are stable to
to scan any further.
We won't be able
Are you picking up
JANEWAY:
at that range?
anything
No planets, no asteroid fields,
no sinkholes.
Good enough for me.
Set a course dead ahead
one-quarter impulse.
TUVOK: Still functioning.
Sensor status?
Still nothing ahead.
KIM:
Good. Let's increase our speed.
Mr. Paris, go to half impulse.
Wait.
KIM:
It's a ship.
Warp capable.
and the outer hull is damaged.
It's adrift,
No life signs.
Let's take a closer look.
hear that again.
Computer, let's
JANEWAY:
Why won't you answer?
MALE:
Did you give up on me...
for being so late?
Not my fault.
MALE 2:
We got lost in here.
make such a noise?
Why do the stars
Let me sleep.
MAN 2:
I don't understand them.
I don't want to talk to them.
I just want to go home.
That was the final
distress call.
TUVOK:
vessel's medical records,
According to the
the Captain and one
of his engineers
started hallucinating
after they entered
this space.
The physician on board
never found a way
to treat them.
they stranded here?
How long were
Almost a year.
Eventually, their systems
were compromised.
of exposure.
They died
are more advanced than ours,
The sensors on that ship
KIM:
and they couldn't
find a way out.
Let's hold our position
till we have a better idea
of what we're up against.
It looks like that's
what they did.
And along the way,
a couple of them
just like Chakotay.
started sounding
that's a coincidence.
I can't believe
Then why hasn't anyone
else been affected?
That's a question
I can't answer.
DOCTOR:
Not yet.
their Captain's body on board.
Request permission to beam
I'd like to perform
an autopsy.
technology off that ship.
Granted. Pull the sensor
Use it to enhance ours.
all the help we can get.
We're going to need
I made a deep scan
of the alien's brain tissue
and sensory organs.
and auditory neurons
The optic
partially stripped
have been
protein insulation.
of their normal
The result,
auditory and visual
hallucinations.
The same symptoms as Chakotay
but a different cause.
Exactly. In this case,
the gene responsible
protein insulation
for producing
was shut down.
By what?
There might be something
in chaotic space
that reacts with DNA,
alters it.
specifically and now you,
But why it targeted him
I can't say.
Is there a treatment?
hallucinations using
I can control the
but, unless I can find
a neural suppressant,
that gene of yours...
a way to deactivate
vision quest. Captain?
I need to go on a
That's not the best
idea right now.
A vision quest
taps directly
frontal cortex.
into your
It could agitate
your mind.
Or help me control it.
Permission granted.
Very well.
I will ask you to wear
a cortical monitor.
track of your vital signs.
It will help me keep
Ah-koo-chee-moya.
I am far from the sacred places
of my grandfathers.
I am far from the bones
of my people...
but perhaps there is a powerful
being who will embrace me...
and give me the answers I seek.
are you doing here?
Grandfather, what
I, uh...
seem to be...lost.
Just a little lost.
medicine this morning.
You didn't take your
Which medicine are
you talking about?
many medicines.
There are
hospital gave us.
The one the
Oh, that one.
Where are you going?
CHAKOTAY:
want that medicine.
My spirit doesn't
I don't care what
your spirit wants.
You're going to take it.
I don't think so.
back to the house.
Come with me
I want to do that?
Now why would
It's better where I'm going.
It's more interesting.
Where are you going?
where my spirit lives.
To the place
Grandfather!
Where are you?
Answer me!
[BELL DINGS]
Begin Round One.
COMPUTER:
[CROWD CHEERING FAINTLY]
[CROWD CHEERING NORMAL VOULUME]
[BELL DINGS]
Begin Round One.
COMPUTER:
The aliens.
They were there,
watching me.
vision quest?
Inside your
to tell me something.
They were trying
What was it?
I don't know.
Are they with you now?
Can you hear them?
Yes.
Let them speak to you.
No! They'll make
me go crazy.
You're not going crazy.
They're doing this
for a reason.
You've got to trust them.
Stop fighting.
Open your mind.
Let go.
Listen.
intersects ours...
Chaotic space...
dimensional gradient.
at the...18th...
entered through...
Voyager...
[FAINT CROWD NOISE]
a trimetric fracture.
Trimetric fracture?
we'll be destroyed.
We must escape, or
How do we escape?
We've got to alter
our warp field.
In what way?
Rentrillic trajectory.
Rentrillic?
It doesn't make any sense.
I can't understand it.
I'm scared I'm losing my mind!
Try to focus.
It's too much!
I can't! It's too much!
Chakotay!
Get them out!
First contact?
It was brief, but he definitely
communicated with them.
Rentrillic trajectory.
they never got around
Unfortunately,
what that meant.
to explaining
Could be some sort
of alien geometry,
but we'll need much more.
Is it safe for him
to try to make
contact again?
Medically speaking, yes.
The problem is convincing
the Commander of that.
you're frightened...
I realize
but you're our only hope
out of this place.
could risk your sanity.
You think this
won't do you any good
But your sanity
in chaotic space.
if we remain
I need you to keep
trying, Chakotay.
Will you keep trying?
Keep me posted.
Are you ready to continue?
the alien voices.
Try to focus on
Tell me what they're saying.
I can't hear them.
Are you sure?
Listen carefully.
Maybe we can return you
to a more receptive
frame of mind.
you first heard them
Think back to when
in the vision quest.
What were you doing?
Where were you?
In a boxing ring.
A strange ring.
Was anyone else there?
Yes.
My opponent...
Kid Chaos.
Describe him.
Tuvok...
move into position.
target the midsection.
Thompson and Sharr,
TUVOK:
Ensign MacAlister, you and
I will aim for the head.
Set your phasers to kill.
Not exactly
the Marquis of Queensberry
rules now, is it?
"Set to kill"? That's not even
Starfleet.
Put down the weapons, son.
an Academy groundskeeper?
Tactical advice from
TUVOK:
We fire at your command, Sir.
Give that order,
BOOTHBY:
count, the whole lot of you.
and you'll be out for the
Lower your weapons.
TUVOK: Commander...
I said stand down!
We just heard from Vegas,
PARIS:
Mars and Orion III.
The odds are running 33:1
that he'll outpoint you.
Eleven to one that you'll
be K-Oed by the fifth.
Subspace radio
is calling it,
in the Delta."
"The Disaster
scratch the card.
We can still
I'll call the Doctor.
We'll get you out
on a medical.
He's trying to
hornswoggle us.
BOOTHBY:
Double check those calculations.
Let me see that pad.
Nope. Fine.
friends? You're on your own.
Don't want to trust your
[CROWD SHOUTING, CHEERING]
[GRUNTING]
I'm filing a grievance
NEELIX:
with the Delta Quadrant
Boxing Commission!
This bout came
out of nowhere!
There's some sort of
scheduling mix-up.
the time to train.
You haven't had
You're not ready!
you'll be destroyed!
If you fight now,
I can't fight now.
I'm not ready for this.
NEELIX:
Come on!
I can't stay here!
I follow your example,
learn from you,
KIM:
look up to you.
I don't want to lose that.
You'll find another role model.
You'll be okay.
You're my First Officer.
JANEWAY:
Your duty is to this crew.
happens to me,
If something
you've got to get
Voyager home.
Tuvok can take command.
You're being selfish, Chakotay.
TORRES:
I'm doing this for you...
for all of you!
dementia puglistica.
A delusion,
You're punch-drunk, Commander.
the head and neck,
A hard shot to
carotid artery,
collapses the
and cuts the flow of
blood to the brain.
The hook! The head and neck
twist laterally,
the cerebral tissue.
traumatizing
And who can forget
the upper cut?
The head snaps back,
in the cerebellum
rupturing tissue
and upper spinal cord!
Yes!
[SIGHS]
And the result...
of all this poetry in motion?
Neurologic dysfunction,
chronic traumatic
encephalopathy,
and coordination,
loss of balance
loss of memory.
sound...familiar?
Starting to
Chakotay's fine.
NEELIX:
conditioning, that's all.
He just needs a little
He needs to listen
to his doctor,
his fantasies.
and not to
Step into that arena,
what you most fear.
and you'll become
What are you talking about?
Oh, he knows
what I mean.
Don't you, Chakotay?
Hmm?
What's wrong?
Victory...
defeat, knockout,
TKO...
it's all beside
the point.
it really ends,
We know how
"a crazy old man..."
Hmm?
It's your fate,
your destiny.
There's no escape.
to do your best.
You've just got
NEELIX:
You can't let yourself
give in to your fears.
I'm not afraid!
CHAKOTAY:
Who said you were?
NEELIX:
[PANTING]
CHAKOTAY:
I'm sorry!
Please come back.
They got away.
GRANDFATHER:
Grandfather.
Where did you go?
Some people were
shouting at me.
They were going for a walk,
and they wanted me
to come along.
Oh...
It's hard to follow them.
to strange places.
Oh, God, they go
be watching you.
I'm supposed to
We're going to
get in trouble
if we don't go
back home.
Be a good boy and go.
We understand.
come with me.
You have to
can come with us.
They say you
There's nobody
else here.
just like we are.
They say you're
I'm not!
I'm not like you.
It's not so bad.
When you get used to it,
they're not so bad.
They're just a lot of talk.
they were more quiet.
Sometimes I wish
But they like to talk.
Come home.
No.
I'm too tired.
This is a nice place...
a nice place to call home.
Hmm.
[BELL DINGS FAINTLY]
Begin Round One.
COMPUTER:
Did you hear that?
No.
Yes, you did.
There's a lot of
them this time.
Tell them to go away!
Go away!
They've got other ideas.
[CROWD CLAMORING]
I have to go home!
coming for you.
Wait. They're
The challenger, Chakotay!
ANNOUNCER:
Better late
than never.
BOOTHBY:
scrubbed the bout.
They almost
I'm afraid.
I know you are.
You'd be a liar if you
said anything else.
But I've always
been afraid.
I know that too.
The champion, Kid Chaos!
ANNOUNCER:
[CROWD CHEERING]
That's it!
All over!
The fight's been canceled
on medical grounds!
[CHUCKLING]
Put 'em down. Let's go.
I hear there's some bearbaiting
at the arena next door!
Have fun!
[HYPOSPRAY WHOOSHES]
He's coming out of it.
You stopped the fight.
in the vision quest.
You were stuck
I've got to go back.
You're going nowhere
but Sick Bay.
Let me go.
It's over for you.
Calm down.
Chakotay...
No, let me get in the ring!
No. Let me back in the ring.
Let me...
Two hundred thousand
kilometers.
Launch another beacon.
Beacon launched.
I'm reading a shift
KIM:
graviton shear.
of .003 in the
JANEWAY:
Status?
Shields holding.
TUVOK:
one-quarter impulse.
Speed is steady at
Maintain course and
heading, Mr. Paris.
JANEWAY:
functioning.
Sensors are
KIM:
is still clear.
Our course
Captain, I recommend we go
to three-quarters impulse.
Increasing power
to the engines
TUVOK:
chaotic space.
could affect
There are too many unknowns.
daylight in about two months.
At this speed, we should see
in chaotic space, the longer
The longer we're
to these unknowns.
we're exposed
undeniable, Captain.
His logic is
We should increase our speed.
Finally.
Who am I to dispute logic?
Take a look at this.
beacon we launched
It's the first
three hours ago.
We've been going
in circles?
one large circle.
To be precise,
TUVOK:
Hold our position.
All stop.
Report.
10,053 algorithms
I've applied
produced by chaotic space.
to the energy signatures
There is a pattern.
Order to chaos?
Observe.
An isolinear frequency.
Some kind of signal?
JANEWAY:
I haven't located
the source.
It may be natural,
a star or quasar
survive in chaotic space.
that has managed to
But it could be
a transmission.
Possibly.
Have you tried
the standard language
decryptions?
with no success.
All of them
in short supply lately.
Success seems to be
Impossible.
Captain?
And to think...
from getting an "A."
that kept me
question I missed
It was the only
in exo-genetics
my senior year.
resonance frequency.
The nucleotide
That signal was designed
to activate DNA.
It realigned his
molecular bonds.
Now do you believe me?
who scheduled the fight.
They're the ones
They're promoting it.
They're putting
up the purse.
His sensory cortex
is hyperactive.
hallucinating.
He's still
It's not an hallucination,
not a vision quest,
it's a prizefight!
Chakotay, do you know me?
Do you know where you are?
I know you,
Captain,
but you stopped
the fight.
You ruined my career!
Nobody is going to put me
on the card after this!
It's better for you
to rest, Chakotay,
why this is happening to you.
until we can figure out
They want to contact me.
Who does?
The people who live here.
This will sedate him.
Wait a minute.
lives here, in chaotic space?
You believe somebody
to communicate with you?
And they're trying
Yes! I saw him!
Tell me about him.
What does he look like?
He's got a couple
of kilos on me,
a few centimeters
in height,
but I can take
him, Captain!
I just have to stay
off the ropes.
The holodeck boxing simulation
is still strong in his memory.
primary source of imagery
Obviously, it's the
for his hallucinations.
hallucinations
What if those
are being induced...
for a purpose?
on some perceptual wavelength
Aliens who exist
that our senses can't detect,
and the only way for them
to communicate
to alter our senses.
with us is
gave them the opportunity.
Chakotay's bad gene
What are you proposing?
Remember the derelict ship?
claimed they were seeing things.
Two of their crew members
to communicate with them?
Was somebody trying
to warn them, help them?
Or trying to destroy them,
just as they're trying
to destroy us.
all the trouble?
Why go through
We're trapped here anyway.
Let me back in the ring!
Even if this is
some kind of alien
communication,
it could harm him
permanently.
Bridge to Captain Janeway.
TUVOK:
Go ahead, Tuvok.
has increased again.
Graviton shear
Hull pressure is rising.
I'm on my way.
Captain...
when have we ever turned away
from a first contact?
Send him back in the ring.
Report!
Some kind of spatial sinkhole
just opened up beneath us!
Full thrusters!
Status?
sidestep that one,
We managed to
but graviton shear has increased
by another 310 percent.
Janeway to Sick Bay.
Sick Bay here.
JANEWAY: It's now or never.
Understood, Captain.
I've got to get in there.
They're about to ring the bell.
I'm going to subject
you to a field
the nucleotide bonds.
that will enhance
The gene should become
fully activated.
Do you understand?
I understand.
Find us a way
out of here.
I'll try.
[FAINT CROWD NOISES]
[BELL DINGING]
[BELL RINGING]
Good idea.
BOOTHBY:
Keep him waiting.
Let him sweat it out.
In this corner, representing
ANNOUNCER:
the Alpha Quadrant,
Earth and humanity,
the challenger, Chakotay!
Everybody loves an underdog.
And in this corner,
ANNOUNCER:
champion of the Delta Quadrant,
Kid Chaos!
[CHEERING]
Looks like he's got
strength, a real puncher.
a lot of upper-body
Just keep your elbow low
when you throw the right,
straight, you'll be okay.
and don't come in too
Where's the scouting report?
We don't know anything
about this guy.
I don't know who
I'm up against!
You're up against
yourself.
you've got to remember,
That's all
and don't raise the elbow.
Begin Round One.
COMPUTER:
Boothby, where are you?
Still here, son.
BOOTHBY:
I'm not going anywhere.
You...
Are...
Far from where...
You...call home.
You...Are...Lost.
Do you understand?
[GRUNTS]:
Yes.
We are far from home.
We are lost.
Home...
Our...
Is here.
[GRUNTING]
Our...Home...Is here...
In chaotic space.
Chaotic space...
Hang in there, son.
BOOTHBY:
Protect your head!
I understand!
Alien...
We are too...
For you.
Strange...
Maybe we're the ones
who are too alien...
too strange.
If...
You...
In chaotic space...
Stay...
Chaotic space...
You'll be destroyed!
We know that...
but we can't navigate.
Our sensors don't work
in your space.
Twenty more seconds!
Don't go down!
Your...
Sensors must be...
Realigned...
How can I?
Must be...
Your mind...
Realigned... Realigned...
Realigned.
Must be...
Your mind...
I understand.
Realigned.
End Round One.
COMPUTER:
Get them out!
Let go, Commander!
any more punches!
I can't take
They aren't hitting you.
Duck...feint...
clinch!
Stop fighting!
I can't! They'll
destroy me!
you'll have to take.
That's a risk
You take the damn risk!
Why?
They want you.
have the gene.
Because you
The crazy gene.
Yes, the crazy gene.
The aliens are trying
to speak to you,
you from understanding them,
and the only thing keeping
fear of losing control,
is your own fear, your
the unknown...
your fear of
The unknown...and I
don't want to know.
But we have to know,
going to die.
or we're all
Allow yourself
to hear them
for just a few moments.
Do it for us.
What will happen to me...
when they're done?
You'll be on Voyager...
surrounded by friends.
I can't understand them.
You will.
fast, too many words.
They're talking too
Try to focus on one
word at a time.
Too many words.
Don't stop.
I'm scared.
Let them in.
I don't want to die!
They won't hurt you!
No one will hurt you!
[DISTANT CROWD NOISES]
Eighteenth gradient,
trimetric fracture.
Keep going.
We have to modify
our deflector.
We have to induce
a paralateral
rentrillic trajectory.
How do we do that?
I think I understand.
It's making sense.
Where are you going?
adjustments myself.
I can make the
I have to get to the Bridge.
I don't know how much longer
I can keep it in my mind!
TUVOK: Commander.
JANEWAY: What happened?
that almost knocked me out.
He's got a right uppercut
Move over, Harry.
Hang on, Ensign.
how to get out of here.
They showed me
He's hallucinating.
Out of the way!
Tell us what to do.
I can't!
difficult to explain.
It's too
I'm locking him out.
No. Give up your post.
JANEWAY:
He's recalibrating
the deflector dish,
TUVOK:
through the sensor array.
and routing it
It must be altered.
Captain, the graviton shear
is increasing.
I'm reading microfractures
on the hull.
Stay and we'll be destroyed.
Activate the deflector,
maximum amplitude.
Bring sensors online.
Do it.
Captain...
[KEYBOARD BEEPS]
I don't know how,
but the sensors have
found us a course.
Maximum impulse...now!
Captain, if the course is wrong,
we could breach our hull.
Engage.
We've reentered normal space.
[SIGHS]
Mr. Paris, resume a course
to the Alpha Quadrant.
Aye, Sir.
PARIS:
[FAINT CROWD NOISES]
[CROWD NOISE FADES]
When I said you should take
JANEWAY:
I thought you'd want to stay
the next day or two off,
with a good book.
in your quarters
Boxing helps me unwind.
CHAKOTAY:
Well, in that case,
report for duty
in the morning.
first thing
See you then.
Training Program 15-Beta.
Computer, run Chakotay
[COMPUTER BEEPS]
Ah, come for a little
more punishment?
Thought I'd spar
for a few rounds.
that last bout?
Uh-huh, after
Did you talk to the Doc?
I've got a clean
bill of health.
enough for me.
That's good
Okay.
I've been watching him fight.
He falls in too much
when he clinches,
more to his right,
and he moves
than he does to his left.
Well, I'll double up
on the left jabs,
and see what happens.
You sure you're
ready for this?
I'm ready.
Okay.
[BELL DINGS]
Begin Round One.
COMPUTER:
[THEME MUSIC PLAYS]